README.md, before:

# 🐍 Python Foundation: The 14-Day Challenge

Welcome to the **Python Foundation Course**! 🚀

This repository contains a complete, 2-week curriculum designed to take you from **Zero to Capable** in Python. It is structured to require just **1 Hour Per Day** of study and practice.

> **Target Audience:** College Students & Beginners
> **Prerequisites:** None. Just a laptop and curiosity.

---

## 🛠️ Setup & Installation
Before starting Day 01, make sure you have your environment ready:

1.  **Install Python:** [Download Here](https://www.python.org/downloads/) (Check "Add to PATH" during install!)
2.  **Install VS Code:** [Download Here](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
3.  **Install Jupyter:** Run this command in your terminal:
    ```bash
    pip install notebook
    ```
4.  **Clone This Repo:**
    ```bash
    git clone [https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/Python-Foundation-14-Days.git](https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/Python-Foundation-14-Days.git)
    ```

---

## 📅 The Syllabus

### Week 1: The Building Blocks 🧱
*Master the logic and syntax of the language.*

| Day | Topic | Key Concepts |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **01** | [Print Function](./01_Print_Function.ipynb) | `print()`, Comments, The "Hello World" Ritual |
| **02** | [Variables](./02_Variables_and_Data_Type.ipynb) | Strings, Integers, F-Strings, Naming Rules |
| **03** | [Input & Math](./03_Input_Output_and_Type_Casting.ipynb) | `input()`, Type Casting, Floor Division `//`, Modulo `%` |
| **04** | [Logic & Booleans](./04_Operators_and_Boolean_Logic.ipynb) | `True/False`, `and`, `or`, `not`, Comparison `==` |
| **05** | [Conditionals](./05_Conditional_Statements.ipynb) | `if`, `elif`, `else`, Nested Decisions |
| **06** | [For Loops](./06_For_Loops_and_Range.ipynb) | Iteration, `range()`, Accumulator Pattern |
| **07** | [While Loops](./07_While_Loops_and_Logic.ipynb) | Infinite Loops, `break`, `continue`, Game Loops |

### Week 2: Data Structures & Architecture 🏗️
*Learn how to organize data and write reusable code.*

| Day | Topic | Key Concepts |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **08** | [Strings](./08_Strings_and_Text_Methods.ipynb) | Slicing `[::]`, Methods `.upper()`, `.replace()` |
| **09** | [Lists](./09_Lists_and_List_Operations.ipynb) | Indexing, `.append()`, `.pop()`, Mutable Data |
| **10** | [Tuples & Sets](./10_Tuples_and_Sets.ipynb) | Immutability, Removing Duplicates, Set Logic |
| **11** | [Dictionaries](./11_Dictionaries_and_Key_Value_Pairs.ipynb) | Key-Value Pairs, Nested Dicts, Lookups |
| **12** | [Functions I](./12_Functions_Basics.ipynb) | `def`, Parameters, Arguments, Default Values |
| **13** | [Functions II](./13_Functions_Return_and_Scope.ipynb) | `return` vs `print`, Global vs Local Scope |
| **14** | [Error Handling](./14_Exception_Handling_Try_Except.ipynb) | `try`, `except`, Handling Crashes Gracefully |
| **15** | [Review and Mini Project](./15_Review_and_Mini_Project_1.ipynb) | Capstone Project |
---

## 🎓 How to Use This Course
1.  **Open the Notebook:** Click on the file for the day (e.g., `01_Intro...`).
2.  **Read & Run:** Read the concept, then click the **Run** button on the code block to see it in action.
3.  **Do the Activities:** At the bottom of every notebook, there are 5 Levels of challenges. **Do not skip these.** They are the only way to learn.
4. **Solutions** for the activities are added in [solutions](./solutions/) directory.

---

## 🚀 What's Next? (Level 2)
Congratulations on finishing the Basics! You now have the tools, but you need to build something real.

👉 **Proceed to Module 2: Intermediate Python & Projects**
*(Link to your second repo will go here)*

In Module 2, you will build:
* 🏧 **A Fully Functional ATM App**
* 📊 **Data Analysis Tools**
* 🌐 **Web Scrapers & API Bots**

---

## 🤝 Contributing
Found a typo? Want to add a better example?
Feel free to **Fork** this repo and submit a **Pull Request**.

**Happy Coding! 🐍**

Commit message:

updated readme, added guides and community contribution

README.md, after:

# 🐍 Python Foundation: The 14-Day Challenge

Welcome to the **Python Foundation Course**! 🚀

This repository contains a complete, 2-week curriculum designed to take you from **Zero to Basic** in Python. It is structured to require just **1 Hour Per Day** of study and practice.

> **Note**: This repo will be continiously update and monitored to make sure the course is up to date. 

> **Target Audience:** College Students & Beginners

> **Prerequisites:** None. Just a laptop and curiosity.

## I am here to help

If you run into any issues, don’t hesitate to reach out! 
I’m always happy to help—whether through the platform, via email at **[chandraul.bhaskar@gmail.com](mailto:chandraul.bhaskar@gmail.com)**, or on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/bhaskarchandraul/) (I genuinely enjoy connecting!).

---

## 🛠️ Setup & Installation
Before starting Day 01, make sure you have your environment ready. You can do so by completing the setup instructions for your respective system. Refer to [Setup Guide](00_Setup_Guide.md).

## Super useful resources

- The course [repo](https://github.com/geekychandraul/14-Days-of-Python-Basics) with videos
- Many essential guides in the [guides](guides/01_intro.ipynb) section.

---

## 📅 The Syllabus

### Week 1: The Building Blocks 🧱
*Master the logic and syntax of the language.*

| Day | Topic | Key Concepts |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **01** | [Print Function](./01_Print_Function.ipynb) | `print()`, Comments, The "Hello World" Ritual |
| **02** | [Variables](./02_Variables_and_Data_Type.ipynb) | Strings, Integers, F-Strings, Naming Rules |
| **03** | [Input & Math](./03_Input_Output_and_Type_Casting.ipynb) | `input()`, Type Casting, Floor Division `//`, Modulo `%` |
| **04** | [Logic & Booleans](./04_Operators_and_Boolean_Logic.ipynb) | `True/False`, `and`, `or`, `not`, Comparison `==` |
| **05** | [Conditionals](./05_Conditional_Statements.ipynb) | `if`, `elif`, `else`, Nested Decisions |
| **06** | [For Loops](./06_For_Loops_and_Range.ipynb) | Iteration, `range()`, Accumulator Pattern |
| **07** | [While Loops](./07_While_Loops_and_Logic.ipynb) | Infinite Loops, `break`, `continue`, Game Loops |

### Week 2: Data Structures & Architecture 🏗️
*Learn how to organize data and write reusable code.*

| Day | Topic | Key Concepts |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **08** | [Strings](./08_Strings_and_Text_Methods.ipynb) | Slicing `[::]`, Methods `.upper()`, `.replace()` |
| **09** | [Lists](./09_Lists_and_List_Operations.ipynb) | Indexing, `.append()`, `.pop()`, Mutable Data |
| **10** | [Tuples & Sets](./10_Tuples_and_Sets.ipynb) | Immutability, Removing Duplicates, Set Logic |
| **11** | [Dictionaries](./11_Dictionaries_and_Key_Value_Pairs.ipynb) | Key-Value Pairs, Nested Dicts, Lookups |
| **12** | [Functions I](./12_Functions_Basics.ipynb) | `def`, Parameters, Arguments, Default Values |
| **13** | [Functions II](./13_Functions_Return_and_Scope.ipynb) | `return` vs `print`, Global vs Local Scope |
| **14** | [Error Handling](./14_Exception_Handling_Try_Except.ipynb) | `try`, `except`, Handling Crashes Gracefully |
| **15** | [Review and Mini Project](./15_Review_and_Mini_Project_1.ipynb) | Capstone Project |
---

## 🎓 How to Use This Course
1.  **Open the Notebook:** Click on the file for the day (e.g., `01_Intro...`).
2.  **Read & Run:** Read the concept, then click the **Run** button on the code block to see it in action.
3.  **Do the Activities:** At the bottom of every notebook, there are 5 Levels of challenges. **Do not skip these.** They are the only way to learn.
4. **Solutions** for the activities are added in [solutions](./solutions/) directory.

---

## 🚀 What's Next? (Level 2)
Congratulations on finishing the Basics! You now have the tools, but you need to build something real.

👉 **Proceed to Module 2: Intermediate Python & Projects**
*(Link to your second repo will go here)*

In Module 2, you will build:
* 🏧 **A Fully Functional ATM App**
* 📊 **Data Analysis Tools**
* 🌐 **Web Scrapers & API Bots**

---

## 🤝 Contributing
Found a typo? Want to add a better example?
Feel free to **Fork** this repo and submit a **Pull Request**.

If you have time, I'd love it if you submit a PR for changes in the community_contributions folder. Also, if you have a Github account, use this to showcase your variations. Not only is this essential practice, but it demonstrates your skills to others, including perhaps future clients or employers...
While adding file please use below naming convention.

*{day}_{Topic_name}_{Your_name}.ipynb / .py*

Exmaple : **04_Operators_and_Boolean_Logic_John.ipynb**

**Happy Coding! 🐍**
